# It’s the end of drop 1 as we know it...

Update Friday May 8, 2020

The tech team at Radix has just completed its fourth three-week sprint.  We are still happy with our progress, having just completed drop 1, but there is still some way to go until the first public release.

What we have so far, at a high level:
- Initial implementation of chained, 3-phase BFT consensus (unsharded Cerberus), with signature and quorum checks
- Integration of the Radix Engine into the consensus mechanism
- Basic mempool implementation
- Basic explorer (for testing)
- Basic desktop wallet and supporting Javascript library
- Java library updates for new consensus
- Extensive and growing system test framework

We have still not had to reduce scope on any planned functionality at this point.

The combination of these key features is means we are able to declare completion for [drop 1](drops.md).  As a result of the completion of drop 1, we have started a small three-node system running around the clock.  This system will allow us to soak test the code that we have to ensure that we shake out any issues affecting long-term stability, such as slow memory leaks.

With the completion of drop 1, we are now working on [drop 2](drops.md), which will bring us proof-of-stake Sybil protection, as well as basic staking.

Priorities for our next couple of sprints are:
- Finalise ledger synchronisation to accommodate crashing or late joining nodes
- Implement the Radix Engine components of PoS and validator registration
- Continue working on our system test framework and test suite

Oh, and if you would like to take a look at the system, feel free to check out drop 1 code at the following following tags:

Project                                                                                  | Latest Update | Current Release | Description
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------- | --------------- | -----------
[radixdlt-core](https://github.com/radixdlt/radixdlt-core/tree/1.0-beta.9)               | May 8, 2020   | 1.0-beta.9      | The main consensus layer. You only really need this to check out and run a node.
[radix-engine-library](https://github.com/radixdlt/radix-engine-library/tree/1.0-beta.9) | May 8, 2020   | 1.0-beta.9      | The library for the Radix Engine.  Automatically included as a dependency `radixdlt-core`
[radixdlt-java](https://github.com/radixdlt/radixdlt-java/tree/1.0-beta.8)               | May 8, 2020   | 1.0-beta.8      | The Java client access library.
